TITLE: ***garnet. Crystals Used In Aggressive Magick | Witch University
CREATED: 20170404T033616Z
UPDATED: 20170404T033616Z
SOURCE: http://witchuniversity.com/2015/crystals-used-in-aggressive-magick/

============================================================

Menu

Skip to primary content

Home

WU Forums

Join Witch University

Members

Log In

Beginner Witchcraft

Herbs and Ingredients Used in Witchcraft

Calendar

About

Link to WitchUniversity.com

Add An Article

Contact us!

Help

Facebook

Link Grove

Free Nordic Rune Readings

Sheloya Mystical

All Articles

Search

Witch University

A place to learn effective magick and mysticism.

Crystals Used In Aggressive Magick

Posted by Sheloya 

Link to this article: http://wp.me/p550hU-AB

Like!

1

Most manuals on crystal therapy and magick avoid the mention of their use in hexing, cursing, and other aggressive workings.  I understand that they do this to keep things positive or because they fear misuse of crystals.  However, this approach of avoidance and omission is more dangerous than honesty because it leads to possible misuse of crystals due to ignorance.  Inexperienced witches without the guidance of knowing elders may also be unaware of when they are vulnerable.

There is a reason you are instructed to clean your crystals when you receive them, and it’s not just hygiene.  Crystals that have been used for different purposes may require different kinds of cleansing.  Also, and traditions vary in this, generally anything that has housed a spirit or energy who has or was given a persona must be buried, crushed and mixed with the soil outside, thrown into the sea, or otherwise permanently dispatched once its time has come.  They cannot be passed to another without also passing the spirit they embody, much like a manmade fetish.

Now to the crystals and their possible uses in aggressive magick.  This is a work in progress, and by no means a complete listing.

Agate

Inscribing a curse in carnelian agate a certain way sets it in stone.  It is most often used this way to curse someone who robs a grave or otherwise invades a space a witch does not wish disturbed.  It can also be used to create a plague of rats in a certain area.  This is sometimes done under the cover of protecting a place from serpents.

Alexandrite

Can cause obsession or over-focus on something the person who enchants it chooses.  The person can become delusional.

Amethyst

Can be used to induce oversensitivity and self infliction of traumas.  Basically, it can cause your enemies to self destruct.  It is especially effective on bullies and sadistic people.

Angelite

Sometimes used as a “weapon” by mischievous spirits.  By abiku (“lost” spirits of children) in particular, sometimes used as weapons against themselves so that they may die young again.  These should be kept away from infants, young sickly children, and pregnant women who have lost children in the past.

Astrophyllite

If someone has offended the Ancestors in some way, or killed someone dear to you, this stone can be charged to cause the dead to torment them until they die or at least go nuts.

Diamond

Can be used to create blindness, physical or spiritual, confusion, and disorientation.  It is often given as a gift when someone wishes to obscure their true intentions and shady activities.

Diopside, Star

Opens doors that people may want to keep closed.  Can cause people to reveal information that can be used against them.  Lowers inhibitions.  Do not look directly into the cross of a diopside worn as a pendant or that is on someone’s left ring finger.

Emerald

Can cause insane levels of greed and selfishness, and isolation.  It can be used by someone who wants others to be jealous of them or feel eclipsed by them undeservedly.

Flint

Can be used to cause conflicts or as a weapon.

Fossilized Shark Teeth

The petrified remains of predatory animals are quite often used in aggressive magick.  Shark teeth can give someone a sickness of constant hunger or increase their vulnerability when they are in the water.

Garnet

Sometimes used by vampires and others of similar interest, to draw energy or victims.  Often seen in the form of a large garnet ring worn on the index finger, or a large garnet pendant that rests on the solar plexus.

Goshenite

Gets people to reveal their secrets or true intentions.  Used a certain way, it can unmask them in a way that brings out their worst even though they are basically a decent person.  Everyone has a “dark” side.

Hematite

Used for a variety of “underworld” purposes…not necessarily negative.  However, powdered, charged, and wiped or blown on one’s enemies is at least casting your vote to send them to Hel.

Hyraceum

This fossilized excrement of the hyrax (a cute rodent in Africa) is used in some of the more hard core “love” spells that are more about controlling than love.  They are also used by greedy employers against employees who they want to be unable or unwilling to leave and find better work.  It can cause someone to be inexplicably locked in place and dependent on approval.  Nasty, nasty stuff.  Nasty.

Kunzite

Breaker of Babylon, it can remind people of what is really important, but charged to the maximum it will make someone unable to keep their lives together.  It can cause someone to be very vulnerable to addictions and other distractions.

Kyanite

It can help you get inside someone’s head in a good way or a bad way…like little knives sticking in their mind.

Metiorites

Various space stones can be used for various purposes.  Their energy is usually very magnetic, and they are often used to increase the speed and intensity of spells.  For instance, moldavite in combination with alexandrite can make someone bat-sh*t rather than merely delusional.  Pallasite or iron meteorites are good boosters for some war or defense spells. 

Obsidian

A good offensive or defensive stone, it is essentially a weapon.  It also adds fire elemental energy.  It is for offense when it has an edge, and defense when it is tumbled or ground to be blunt.

Onyx, Black

Used to cause nightmares, mental torment, and break relationships.  If you are married or living with someone, and find stray bits of this around, someone is trying to break you up or get one of you away at least.  You can also wear this to defend yourself from the hyraceum mentioned above.

Opal

Can be used as a container and radiator of negative energy.  The person who wishes ill on someone can carry the stone while speaking the curse, and feed it for a time with all of the anger and hostility they have for someone.  This is then given to the person as a gift, usually part of jewelry, or hidden in some part of their home.

Ruby

Ruby is used in benevolent magick as a clarifier or purifyer of intent, but it can be used the same way for aggressive or malevolent purposes.  It zeroes in on the target or concentrates and aims the intent.

Sphene

Can be used to cause negative obsessions and extreme depression.

More on crystals:

Crystals in African and Diaspora Mysticism

…

About
Latest Posts

Follow me on

Sheloya

Dean at WitchUniversity.com

Sheloya (Sis. Nicole) is a licensed U.L.C. Modesto minister, spiritual counselor, and sorceress.She believes in education and empowerment of individuals with a holistic approach to spirituality.
Order a bone reading from Sheloya to find out what the Spirits have to say about your future.

Follow me on

Latest posts by Sheloya (see all)

The high-risk digital world of occult sales and psychic services | The Wild Hunt - March 31, 2017 
Undoing the Hard Work of Pagan Pioneers - March 24, 2017 
Changes… - March 21, 2017 

45

 

1

 

Related

The Curse Collection : Sarah Anne LawlessMarch 14, 2015In "Advanced Witchcraft"

Herbs and Ingredients Used in WitchcraftDecember 28, 2014In "Advanced Witchcraft"

The Family Curse: What Modern Witches Need to KnowFebruary 18, 2016In "Advanced Witchcraft"

February 22, 2015
Leave a reply

Post navigation

« Previous
Next »

Leave a comment 

View Full Site

Proudly powered by WordPress

ChatClick here to chat!

You must be logged in to participate in chats

Skip to toolbar

About WordPress

WordPress.org 

Documentation 

Support Forums 

Feedback 

Log in 

Search