TITLE: Note
CREATED: 20170328T022422Z
UPDATED: 20170401T171801Z

============================================================

After a while king varas became complacent. He rarely ventured beyond the castle walls for he preferred to horde his magic. Expending as little as possible. For he hated to use his energy and as time went on. The gift became weaker and weaker as he had less and less to draw upon. That and some of his earliest drains were dying of old age in his chamber.  He desperation to hold on to his magic made him more cruel.  For him to leave the castle at any time was a  great expenditure of energy as he carried his chamber with him.  

Possibly let his puppet attend which made people feel like they could criticize the throne.  He overheard and personally came in to reprimand them.  Made a great show of entering. Could have been after he hadn't been seen for over a decade by people outside the castle.  His appearance changed drastically.  In size, form and color. 

Most of his time was spent drinking, he threw grand parties where he would allow each table to share in the lifeblood of a slave.  Draining them for they're own gain.  Giving them a greater sense of intoxication. 

At one occasion a man attempted to kill the King. The king severed the head off his guard dog first while the man was forced to watch.  The king then severed the head off of the attempted assassins  body and used heal & mold to attach the mans head to the dogs body.  The man screamed until general Baara cut out his tongue. The king forced the man to close his mouth and took his lips, holding them together as he burned the flesh of his mouth so that his mouth was scarred shut.   He looked down at his new creation.  Visibly proud of what he had done. "I wasn't quite sure this would work, yet it seems to have turned out delightful, wouldn't you agree?" He cast a sharp glance to Lord Kirik.  "He was one of your men.  A cousin or something. Am I right?" He continued stroking his new pet as he waited for an answer. He looked down to see the the assassins head slumped in the dogs body, eyes closed and unconscious.  "Oh no, we can't have that." With a motion he awoke the man He eyes shown great terror.  His eyes pleaded. For a moment he released his hold on the beast and watched in amusement as the dog frantically rolled in the ground. The assassin clearly uncertain of how to control his new body.  Blood and foam spurted from his mouth. After a nod from the king, the knife flung his stone at the man ripping his mouth open. The King forcefully put the dog on its haunches and made him face the crowd of horrified onlookers, many which had already passed out.  "Who put you up to this.  Tell me right now.  Tell me everything and I assure you will get a swift death." The king waited before realizing his error.  "Oh dear, you can't speak can you.  He reached over and picked up the severed piece of tongue from the floor.  Flinging it at Lord Kirik. "My lord, would be ever be so kind as to pick up that filth and put it where it belongs?" The lord stuttered, opening his mouth he was unable to speak.  "My king?" He finally managed to get out, breathlessly.   "Put his tongue back in his mouth." "My king I am afraid I do not understand."  The king replied, cooly, my lord, surely if you had just had your tongue cut off you'd want it put back in order.  Correct?" "Well yes my lord, but..." the king got to feet.  "Enough!" Lord Kirik mouth had been frozen open, a guttural scream emanated from his belly as Varas asked Baara to cut out his tongue.  "Now I am guessing you would want this back.  Am I right?" The man tried to answer to no avail.  "I will make this easier, nod like this for yes and this for no - he made the Addison head in the dog demonstrate.  Lord Kirik frantically nodded yes.  "Ah, you see? You made this SO much harder.  You can have his tongue.  The king again used the move and heal magic to painfully attach  the assassins lifeless, severed tongue to the pulsating piece of flesh wriggling in his mouth.  The Lord collapsed to the floor in a pool of his own blood and vomited.  Now, put the tongue back where it belongs.  Lord Kirik sobbed as he picked up hid severed tongue and crawled on his hand and knees to the dog.  "My lord, with a little dignity please." Lord Kirik got to his feet and approached the dog with the assassins head staring wild eyes back at him.  The king forced the assassin to open his mouth as Lord Kirik  placed the tongue inside his mouth.  "Hold it there please." The lord forced the assassins mouth shut, causing the Lords fingers to be bitten off. "Thank you my lord." The king feigned genuine gratitude.  "Come here dog.  Sit." The assassin with the dog body clumsily obeyed.  "Now. I want you to fetch.  Can you do that for me dog? Fetch me those who knew about me.  Be a good boy and do good for your master and I'll give you a treat." The King was giddy at this point.  He took another draw from his cup and ordered his servant to deliver his pipe. "Go on dog.  Don't make me angry."  Dog turned towards the guests and began slowly moving towards the crowd when the king halted him. "Dog!" Frightened the dog fell to the floor, pissing himself. "Have you forgotten that I am your king? Surely you must know now more than ever that I am your king." The dog got up and turned facing the king, "yeth , ur mathesty". The king laughed, the guests shuddered at the sight of a mans head on a dogs body addressing their king.  "What did you say? I don't understand. "The assassin coughed, spitting out blood and pieces of flesh. "Yes, your majesty".  "Ah much better, such a good dog.  Now fetch".  

After all was said and done, the dog selected 5 conspirators - including Lord Kirik.    The king took them all and made them into dogs. Much to the horror of their families.  He sent the dogs back to their families and forced them to care for them.  All the men were ordered to sit at the heads of their tables and be fed and taken care off.  To serve as a living reminder of the kings power.  He made it clear that any attempts to shorten their lives prematurely would cause the perpetrator to have an even worse fate. 

King gives a great speach on what it means to actually be a dog

I closed his mouth with hopes that those involved would open theirs. Does anyone care to confess?" He looked around at his guests, nonchalantly stroking the head of his new pet.  magic to keep him alive, molding him to the body of a dog and making him side idly in the courtyard, forcing him to stay alive.  

OR The king over hears A group of people discussing the demise of the centaur another man piece that have gone extinct. He overhears them saying that only God can bring them back. This in rages king Farris because he sees himself as a god so he uses someone in that group to create a man beast. 

He taking care to feed him He failed but enraged him 

His salves were weaker with every generation. He could feel himself weakening.  

He began to lessen the drain the his chamber of 7th sons.  He began searching for any glimmer of strength so he could take it.  He began training them as his own.  In secret.   He manipulated them so that he could use them later in times of need.